# MasterArbeit: "Vacuum Polarization in 1+1 spacetime dimensions"
This repository recovers the code developed in order to write my MSc thesis. This thesis borrows tools from Quantum Field Theory on Curved Spacetimes to discuss the backreaction of the Klein-Gordon vacuum immersed in a background electromagnetic field. As the vacuum polarizes, the electromagnetic field no longer propagates through a source-less medium (as one would expect from classical mechanics), but the vacuum gets polarized, in a similar fashion to the polarization of dielectric media. This electromagnetic-field-dependent vacuum polarization leads to non-linearities in the vacuum Maxwell's equation, which can lead to surprising effects, such as photon-photon interactions.

This problem was already discussed in 1934 by Paul A. M. Dirac, where he was able to define the polarization of the Dirac vacuum, when the corresponding field is in the presence of background electromagnetic fields. Consequences followed shortly, as Edwin A. Uehling predicted in 1935 that the polarization of the vacuum modifies the Coulomb potential of a point charge, and Hans H. Euler (another Euler!) discussed the already mentioned light-by-light interactions in his doctoral Thesis, which he wrote under the supervision of Werner K. Heisenberg, also in the Universität Leipzig. Of course this is only a Master's thesis. The results of the doctoral dissertation were published in 1936 by both Euler and Heisenberg, and in it they calculated a Lagrangian which describes the non-linear behavior of electromagnetic fields propagating in the Dirac vacuum.
